[DOCS-5447] Bryce/add azure logging guide (#17999)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/logs/guide/azure-logging-guide.md

8. Click **Save**.
9. Verify your setup is correct by checking the [Datadog log explorer][6] for logs from this resource.

[1]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/event-hubs/event-hubs-create
[2]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/functions-bindings-event-hubs-trigger
[3]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/platform/diagnostic-settings
[4]: https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-serverless-functions/blob/master/azure/activity_logs_monitoring/index.js
[5]: https://app.datadoghq.com/organization-settings/api-keys
[6]: https://app.datadoghq.com/logs
[7]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/getting_started/site/

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "Blob Storage" %}}

To collect logs from all of your Azure App Services, follow this general process:

1. Set up [Azure Blob Storage][1] from the [Azure portal][2], [Azure Storage Explorer][3], [Azure CLI][4], or [Powershell][5].
2. Set up the [Datadog-Azure Function](#create-a-new-azure-blob-storage-function) which forwards logs from your blob storage to Datadog.
3. Configure your Azure App Services to [forward their logs to the Blob Storage][6].

> #### Create a new Azure Blob Storage function

Reviewer: IMO we should add a note that this is not the suggested option for log forwarding to make it clear that we want customers to use eventhubs instead

Author: Thanks for clarifying that -- I added a note to this effect, but let me know if you have any feedback on it.

[1]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/management/control-plane-and-data-plane
[2]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/resource-logs-categories
[3]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/integrations/guide/azure-portal/#azure-active-directory-logs
[4]: https://portal.azure.com/#blade/HubsExtension/BrowseResource/resourceType/Microsoft.Datadog%2Fmonitors
{{< /site-region >}}

{{< site-region region="us,eu,us5,gov,ap1" >}}

## Azure standard integration log collection

Datadog recommends submitting logs from Azure to Datadog with the Agent or DaemonSet. For some resources it may not be possible. In these cases, you can create a log forwarding pipeline using an Azure Event Hub to collect [Azure Platform Logs][57]. For resources that cannot stream Azure Platform Logs to an Event Hub, you can use the Blob Storage forwarding option.

{{< tabs >}}

{{% tab "Automated Installation" %}}

> To get started, click the button below and fill in the form on Azure Portal. The Azure resources required to get activity logs streaming into your Datadog account will be deployed for you.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To get started, click the button below and fill in the form on Azure Portal. The Azure resources required to get activity logs streaming into your Datadog account are deployed for you.
```

Author: Thanks for catching this!

| -FunctionAppName `<datadog-functionapp-1435ad2f-7c1f-470c-a4df-bc7289d8b249>`                            | Customize the name of your Azure function app by adding this flag with an updated parameter. By default, `datadog-functionapp-<globally-unique-ID>` is generated.                                                                         |
| -FunctionName `<datadog-function>`                                  | Customize the name of your Azure Function by adding this flag with an updated parameter.                                                                              |
| -DiagnosticSettingName `<datadog-activity-logs-diagnostic-setting>` | Customize the name of your Azure diagnostic setting by adding this flag with an updated parameter. **(Only relevant for sending activity logs)**                      |

Installation errors? See [Automated log collection][1] for common error cases.

[1]: /integrations/guide/azure-troubleshooting/#automated-log-collection
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "Manual installation" %}}

To send logs from Azure to Datadog, follow this general process:

1. Create an [Azure Event Hub][1].

> 2. Setup the Datadog-Azure [function with an Event hub trigger][2] to forward logs to Datadog.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Set up the Datadog-Azure [function with an Event hub trigger][2] to forward logs to Datadog.
```

3. Configure your Azure services to stream logs to the Event Hub by creating a [diagnostic setting][3].

> The instructions below walk through a basic, initial setup using the Azure Portal. All of these steps can be performed with the CLI, Powershell, or resource templates by referring to the Azure documentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The instructions below walk through a basic, initial setup using the Azure portal. All of these steps can be performed with the CLI, Powershell, or resource templates by referring to the Azure documentation.
```

12. Save the function.
13. Under **Integrate**, set the **Blob Parameter Name** to `blobContent` and click **Save**.
14. Verify your setup is correct by checking the [Datadog Log explorer][10] for your logs.

[1]: https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/storage/blobs/
[2]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/blobs/storage-quickstart-blobs-portal
[3]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/blobs/storage-quickstart-blobs-storage-explorer
[4]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/blobs/storage-quickstart-blobs-cli
[5]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/blobs/storage-quickstart-blobs-powershell
[6]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/store-app-data-with-azure-blob-storage/
[7]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/functions-create-first-azure-function
[8]: https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-serverless-functions/blob/master/azure/blobs_logs_monitoring/index.js
[9]: https://app.datadoghq.com/organization-settings/api-keys
[10]: https://app.datadoghq.com/logs

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

> ## Log Archiving

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Log archiving
```

Archiving logs to Azure Blob Storage requires an App Registration even if you are using the Azure Native integration. To archive logs to Azure Blob Storage, follow the setup instructions to configure the integration using an App Registration. App Registrations created for archiving purposes do not need the `Monitoring Reader` role assigned.

Once you have an App Registration configured, you can [create a log archive][62] that writes to Azure Blob Storage. 

> **Note**: If your storage bucket is in a subscription being monitored through the Azure Native integration, a warning is displayed in the Azure Integration Tile about the App Registration being redundant. You can ignore this warning.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note**: If your storage bucket is in a subscription being monitored through the Azure Native integration, a warning is displayed in the Azure Integration tile about the App Registration being redundant. You can ignore this warning.
```
